---
title: 'Views: Real-time Systems'
date: 2020-02-28
permalink: /posts/2020/02/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Embedded System
  - Real-time System
---

What is the "real-time" in Real-time embedded systems referring to?
------
In my opinion, real-time means the system is able to respond to a request/specific event in a 'designed' period. However, the 'designed period' I mentioned here is not 'the less, the better'. In most cases, this period is a design choice, the result of a trade-off.

For instance, if you want to develop a real-time fire alarm system and you have 500 smoke sensors distributed in each floor of the building, you may write a loop to check the status of smoke sensors in each floor over and over again. The problem is, if your program determines a fire happened just because one of the 500 sensors has an abnormal reading, you will undoubtedly get an alert when the fire really does happen, but you may also receive a lot of false alarms throughout normal days.

On the other hand, if your program thinks 300 abnormal readings are still not enough to declare a fire and it still waiting for abnormal readings from other sensors, then you most likely missed the best time to fight the fire. Consequently, 'time-critical' data is wasted.

In the former case of this example, the sensor can trigger an alarm soon after the event, but at the same time, the 'fraud rate' (ie. misidentified fire event) is high. In the latter case, although the false alarm is rarely triggered, the timing of the true alarm is delayed because the system needs to collect too many abnormal readings before giving an alarm. As a result, the data lost its timeliness. The 'insult rate' (ie. real fire event is not recognized as a fire) is high in this situation.

In a nutshell, I believe the designer should decide the length of the response time according to different application scenarios. It is design choices, design decisions.

Does "real-time" mean instantaneous?
------
Based on my previous example, I think 'real-time' does not mean instantaneous and should not be instantaneous in most cases. By the way, absolute 'instantaneous' is not possible to be achieved. Because when an event happens, the system may take microseconds to run instructions, millisecond to deliver packages in a WSN, maybe another millisecond to process a higher priority interrupt and other messy things.

Give an example of real-time application related to a car
------
Some students mentioned the navigation system on brightspace [discussion](https://brightspace.ucd.ie/d2l/le/53725/discussions/topics/33965/View), I happen to have some experience in this area, so I would like to talk about it. Besides, you will find that the trade-off factor I mentioned earlier also exists here.

The navigation system is a very important real-time system in the field of self-driving and robotics. Cars/robots sense the environment, build maps, plan paths in real-time to avoid obstacles, and finally reach their destination. The whole process is called SLAM (Simultaneous Localization and Mapping). When a smart car or robot is in an unfamiliar environment, their primary task is to build a global map of the current environment. How to build it? The robot or vehicle moves in the space to allow the lidar collecting enough data. After the global map is constructed, the vehicle will have a general understanding of the environment, but only this is not enough to avoid pedestrians who suddenly break into the field of vision.

When a car/robot needs to move from point A to point B, the navigation system will find the optimal path through algorithms (Dijkstra, A\*, BFS, etc.). At the same time, the navigation system will maintain a local map based on the real-time data from the radar. When pedestrians appear, local maps are updated very soon, and pedestrians are considered an obstacle. If a pedestrian appears on a previously planned path, then the system will re-calculate the optimal path to avoid the pedestrian. The above process can be visualized in rviz under the ROS environment.

The navigation depends heavily on the radar on the car/robot. I have worked on a laser-based radar, my program applies a particle filter to estimate the distance between the obstacle and the robot. In this system, the number of particles is the key to the design. Increasing the number of particles will increase the accuracy of the map, but will also slow down the speed of map construction and vice versa. In my example, it is clear that increasing the number of particles will increase the complexity of the algorithm, causing the real-time navigation system failed to avoid the pedestrians in time. As a result, it is to find the proper number of particles in this real-time system.

